CNV-46630: Connecting VMs to primary UDNs (GA) (#86295)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-attaching-vm-to-primary-udn.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-primary-udn.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE                                
[id="virt-attaching-vm-to-primary-udn_{context}"]                                  
= Attaching a virtual machine to the primary user-defined network

> You can connect a virtual machine (VM) to the primary user-defined network (UDN) by including the network details in the VM configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can connect a virtual machine (VM) to the primary user-defined network (UDN) by requesting the pod network attachment, and properly configuring the interface binding.
```

.Prerequisites
* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure
. Edit the `VirtualMachine` manifest to add the UDN interface details, as in the following example:
+
.Example `VirtualMachine` manifest
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachine
metadata:

>   name: example-vm

Reviewer 2: It may be obvious, but I think it is better to also add an explicit `namespace` entry, and explain (in the call-outs below) that VM must be created in a namespace where UDN was defined.

spec:
  template:
    spec:
      domain:
        devices:
          interfaces:
            - name: udn-l2-net # <1>
              binding: 
                name: l2bridge # <2>
# ...
      networks:
      - name: udn-l2-net # <3>
        pod: {}
# ...
----
<1> The name of the user-defined network interface.

> <2> The name of the binding plugin that is used to connect the interface to the VM.

Reviewer: Please indicate that it **must** be l2bridge.

```suggestion
<2> The name of the binding plugin that is used to connect the interface to the VM. The required value is `l2bridge`
```

> <3> The name of the network. This must match the value of the `spec.template.spec.domain.devices.interfaces.name` field.

Reviewer 2: And it should also match the `metadata.name` of the `UserDefinedNetwork` resource.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-primary-udn.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE                                
[id="virt-attaching-vm-to-primary-udn_{context}"]                                  
= Attaching a virtual machine to the primary user-defined network

You can connect a virtual machine (VM) to the primary user-defined network (UDN) by including the network details in the VM configuration.

.Prerequisites
* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure
. Edit the `VirtualMachine` manifest to add the UDN interface details, as in the following example:
+
.Example `VirtualMachine` manifest
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachine
metadata:
  name: example-vm
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      domain:
        devices:
          interfaces:
            - name: udn-l2-net # <1>
              binding: 

>                 name: passt # <2>

Reviewer: let's please use l2bridge.

                name: l2bridge # <3>
# ...
      networks:
      - name: udn-l2-net # <4>
        pod: {}
# ...
----
<1> The namespace in which the VM is located. This value must match the namespace in which the UDN is defined.
<2> The name of the user-defined network interface.

> <3> The name of the binding plugin that is used to connect the interface to the VM. The required value is `l2bridge`.

Reviewer 3: nit: Please consider following existing docs https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.html#virt-attaching-vm-secondary-network-cli_virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge

. Apply the `VirtualMachine` manifest by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <filename>.yaml
----

> . Optional: If you edited a running virtual machine, you must restart it for the changes to take effect.

Reviewer: correct, let's drop this clause.

> <4> The name of the network. This must match the value of the `spec.template.spec.domain.devices.interfaces.name` field of the `VirtualMachine` manifest and the `metadata.name` field of the `UserDefinedNetwork` manifest.

Reviewer: wait a minute ... why does it have to match the "`metadata.name` field of the `UserDefinedNetwork` manifest" ? 

I don't think so ...

@phoracek FYI
@ormergi in case there's something fishy w/ the CRD that I'm not aware of ...

Reviewer 3: Nope its like you would work with any other Multus network.
The "..and the `metadata.name` field of the `UserDefinedNetwork` manifest."  part is not correct for this field, 
its correct for `spec.template.spec.networks.[].multus.networkName` though.

Please see docs we have today for bridge secondary network, I think the new docs should be consistent with what we have today https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.html#virt-attaching-vm-secondary-network-cli_virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge

Plus the addition that the `spec.template.spec.networks.[].multus.**networkName**` field should specify the `UserDefinedNetwork` CR metadata.name.
